All right.
In this video, we're going to look at links, styling links and buttons and links are kind of special
because they have different states.
You have your your regular links, your regular state, and you have your hover state and active state
and a visited state.
And you can actually style those different states using something called a pseudo selector.
And I'm also going to show you how to how to style buttons and also how to style a link as a button.
Because a lot of times you'll have actual a tags that you want to look like buttons in your website
or user interface.
So let's go ahead and create a new file here called zero eight.
Underscore links, underscore buttons, dot HTML.
And we're going to go ahead and change the title up to links and buttons and let's add our style.
And for now, we'll just put in a tag.
Doesn't have to.
Doesn't matter where it goes.
And just say, click here and save.
Let's open it up with live server and we just have a simple link and it's going to be blue by default
with an underline which doesn't look very good.
So I'm going to grab on to that a tag here, use that as a selector and I'm going to change the color
to a dot gray.
And then to remove the underline, we want to use the text decoration property and we want to set that
to none.
So the default is underlined, but we're going to set it to none.
Now, if I hover over it, you'll see we get a cursor.
The cursor changes into a pointer, but the nothing else changes.
So you're probably going to want some kind of change when you hover over it.
Now to do that, we can use the pseudo selector hover so we can do a colon and then hover and let's
change the color to coral.
So now if I go and I hover over it, it changes to coral.
And you can you can add any properties you want here.
You could do something crazy like let's do font size changes to like 40 pixels.
And now when I hover over it, it goes to 40 pixels, font size.
So you can do whatever you want in the hover state.
But I'm not going to keep that.
Let's just change the color.
And if you want to add the underline on hover, you could do text decoration underline.
And I can see that it's colored and it's underlined.
So in addition to hover, we have visited so we can do a colon visited and let's just do color red now
visited.
At least for me.
I don't use this very much.
I don't think I've ever used it actually in a real project.
When you click on it and you visit it, it then turns red and it stays red.
Even if I reload the server, it stays red.
And if there were other links, if we didn't click on them, they'd be they'd be gray, dark gray,
and then you'd click on it and they turn red.
So it's kind of weird and I really don't like it and it's not something that I use, but it is possible.
So I just wanted to show you that, but I'm going to comment that out.
Another state that we have for links is active.
So if we do a colon active and let's say color red and now the active state is going to be when we click.
So when I click see how it turns red and if I click and hold, it also turns red.
So that's the active state and that's another one that I really don't use.
But it is it is possible.
So those are the different states for links.
Now what I want to do is I want to style, I'm going to put a button in here and style the link in the
button the same way.
So let's say button and let's give both of these a class of BTN.
So this is often what I'll do in projects as I'll have different button classes, sometimes you'll have
like a BTN light if I want a light button BTN Dark, which will be this basically the same, just different
colors.
But let's just do BTN, we'll say click here.
Actually, you know what, let's put in the text my button just so we know that this is a button.
And then up here, let's say my link and save and you can see that they're obviously formatted very
differently initially, but we want to make them the same.
And I'm going to just make this bigger.
Not that big.
Okay, so we have a link in a button.
Let's.
Let's see, I want these on separate lines.
They're both inline elements.
So I'm going to just put a couple of line breaks here just to kind of get them away from each other.
So buttons obviously are styled differently.
They have a border.
They have a little bit of padding here, the font's different.
So let's go up here into our styling and let's say button styling.
So we have a class of BTN
and let's go ahead and add a background and I'm going to use a blue that's like a, like a Facebook
brand blue.
So it's going to be four C, six, C, a zero.
And let's set the color of the text to white.
Let's save that and see what we get.
All right.
Now we want to remove the border because buttons have borders.
So we're going to say border.
We could either do border none like that or we could do border zero.
I usually use border none, so we'll save that.
And now the border is off the actual button.
Next thing we want to do is is the font size.
We want the font size to be the same for all all links in buttons, which we're going to set to 16 pixels.
So we'll save that.
Good.
Next thing we'll do is the padding.
So let's say we want to do ten on the top and bottom and 20 left and right.
Save that.
And this is this is zoomed in that's why this is so big.
Can actually zoom out a little bit now.
Yeah.
And let's change the font for the body.
So I'm going to say font family.
Let's grab this.
Or is it Tahoma sig ui tahoma k?
That looks a little better.
Back down to our button.
Let's give it a little border radius.
And this is these are all properties that we've learned about.
So we're kind of taking all the stuff that we've learned and actually creating an element that that's
styled.
So now you can see they have the rounded corners.
Let's let's actually put a line break above the the a tag to just bring it down a little bit.
All right.
So these are these are pretty much identical now.
So for any button or any link that we want to style this way, we would just add the class BTN globally.
Now one thing that I want to mention is the we'll go over this in a minute how the hover state.
But when we go over the actual button, we don't get a cursor, we don't get a pointer on our cursor.
And for this we do links by default.
You do get the the pointer.
So if we want the pointer to show up, either way, we can actually set that in the CSS so we can set
cursor pointer.
And now when I go over the button, you can see that it turns into a pointer.
Now for the hover state.
So let's say BTN hover.
We don't want a space there that won't work.
So BTN hover and we're going to set the colour to do a light grey.
So that's the text colour and then the background.
I'm going to set that to just a slightly lighter blue than the one we have, which is going to be 446190.
Or is it darker?
I think it's yeah, I think it's darker.
And then I'm going to just get rid of the text decoration, underline for the the link up here.
Even though we said links link covers should be KORRELL down here, we're saying the button hover should
be light grey and this is going to overwrite that style.
So let's save, let's go ahead and hover and you can see that the blue gets a little darker.
So you can't even distinguish the difference here between the the link, the a tag and the button tag.
And that's that's what we want.
So that's what you're going to do a lot in websites and especially in user interfaces where you have
a lot of links that you want to format as buttons.
All right.
So that's it, guys.
In the next video, what I want to do is start to look at menus creating vertical and horizontal navigation
bars.
So we'll get into that next.